README.md, before:

# Giftune Frontend
An app designed to keep you on top of your loved ones’ upcoming birthdays where you can effortlessly select the perfect gift from a diverse array of options provided by your loved one's wishlist.

## Giftune instructions

- Instructions to get the application up and running

### Deployed Links
frontend: [Giftune on Netlify](https://giftune.netlify.app/)
backend: [Giftune on Render](https://capstone-backend-er7b.onrender.com)
database: []()

#### Blockers we had during development
- Basic SQL queries everyone needed weren't made beforehand and we had multiple queries doing the same thing. We did some cleanup and fixed that as a group.
- At one point we needed to figure out how to store the user login in local storage or in state on App.js so we could get the user information passed around properly and make a conditional for the sidebar that should only show up after you log in. We asked Instructor Pak for help on this since we were at a loss to get this working. We ended up storing the user in both local storage and in state.
- Logic for maipulating the upcoming dates and sorting them was confusing and a couple of us put our heads together to work it out and then used chatgpt to clean up the code a bit before we finished making it more efficient.

# React Skeleton

This is a skeleton for a frontend web application using React. It is intended to be used as a starting point for new projects. It is not intended to be a production-ready application.

## Using the Skeleton

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url> <directory-name>
    # Example: git clone https://github.com/9-5-pursuit/react-skeleton my-app-frontend
    ```

1. Change into the directory.

    ```bash
    cd <directory-name>
    # Example: cd my-app-frontend
    ```

1. Setup a new remote repository on Github so that you don't overwrite the skeleton repository.

1. Link your local repository to your new remote repository.

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin <new-repository-url>
    ```

1. Make a small change, then create a new commit to test the remote repository.

    ```bash
    git add .
    git commit -m "Update remote repository"
    git push
    ```

## React Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) - JavaScript runtime
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Package manager

### Getting Started

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm start
```

> Note: You should have the backend development server running before starting the frontend development server. Each server should be running simultaneously in separate terminal windows. This can be a lot to keep track of at first, so take your time when making changes to the repository.

### Built With

- [React](https://reactjs.org/) - JavaScript library for building user interfaces
- [react-router-dom](https://reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start) - Routing
- [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios) - HTTP client

### Additional Notes

Since this is a skeleton, the `.env` file is included in the repository. This is not recommended for production applications. The `.env` file should be added to the `.gitignore` file and the environment variables should be set in the production environment.

Commit message:

Updated README.md with local host instructions

README.md, after:

# Giftune Frontend
An app designed to keep you on top of your loved ones’ upcoming birthdays where you can effortlessly select the perfect gift from a diverse array of options provided by your loved one's wishlist.

## Giftune instructions (local host)

1. In command line, navigate to 'capstone-backend'
2. Insert command 'npm install'
3. Insert command 'npm run pg:init'
4. Insert command 'npm run dev'

   Now for the Frontend
5. In command line, navigate to 'capstone-frontend'
6. Insert command 'npm install'
7. Insert command 'npm start' or 'npm run start'

   Application will now open in a new tab on your default browser with URL 'http://localhost:3000/'

### Deployed Links
frontend: [Giftune on Netlify](https://giftune.netlify.app/)
backend: [Giftune on Render](https://capstone-backend-er7b.onrender.com)
database: []()

#### Blockers we had during development
- Basic SQL queries everyone needed weren't made beforehand and we had multiple queries doing the same thing. We did some cleanup and fixed that as a group.
- At one point we needed to figure out how to store the user login in local storage or in state on App.js so we could get the user information passed around properly and make a conditional for the sidebar that should only show up after you log in. We asked Instructor Pak for help on this since we were at a loss to get this working. We ended up storing the user in both local storage and in state.
- Logic for maipulating the upcoming dates and sorting them was confusing and a couple of us put our heads together to work it out and then used chatgpt to clean up the code a bit before we finished making it more efficient.

# React Skeleton

This is a skeleton for a frontend web application using React. It is intended to be used as a starting point for new projects. It is not intended to be a production-ready application.

## Using the Skeleton

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url> <directory-name>
    # Example: git clone https://github.com/9-5-pursuit/react-skeleton my-app-frontend
    ```

1. Change into the directory.

    ```bash
    cd <directory-name>
    # Example: cd my-app-frontend
    ```

1. Setup a new remote repository on Github so that you don't overwrite the skeleton repository.

1. Link your local repository to your new remote repository.

    ```bash
    git remote set-url origin <new-repository-url>
    ```

1. Make a small change, then create a new commit to test the remote repository.

    ```bash
    git add .
    git commit -m "Update remote repository"
    git push
    ```

## React Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) - JavaScript runtime
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) - Package manager

### Getting Started

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm start
```

> Note: You should have the backend development server running before starting the frontend development server. Each server should be running simultaneously in separate terminal windows. This can be a lot to keep track of at first, so take your time when making changes to the repository.

### Built With

- [React](https://reactjs.org/) - JavaScript library for building user interfaces
- [react-router-dom](https://reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start) - Routing
- [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios) - HTTP client

### Additional Notes

Since this is a skeleton, the `.env` file is included in the repository. This is not recommended for production applications. The `.env` file should be added to the `.gitignore` file and the environment variables should be set in the production environment.
